.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.9 2004/07/02 10:36:57 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 GeNUA mbH <info@genua.de>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd December 17, 2008
.Dt ANOUBIS_SIG 3
.Os Anoubis
.Sh NAME
.Nm struct anoubis_sig
.Nm anoubis_sig_pub_init
.Nm anoubis_sig_priv_init
.Nm anoubis_sig_free
.Nm anoubis_sig_key2char
.Nm anoubis_sig_sign_csum
.Nm anoubis_sig_verify_csum
.Nm anoubisd_sig_verify_csum
.Nm anoubis_sig_sign_policy
.Nm anoubis_sig_verify_policy_file
.Nm anoubis_sig_verify_policy
.Nm anoubis_sig_cert_name
.Nd Signature handling of Anoubis
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In anoubis_sig.h
.Ft struct anoubis_sig *
.Fn anoubis_sig_pub_init "const char *keyfile, const char *certfile, void *passcb, int *error"
.Ft struct anoubis_sig *
.Fn anoubis_sig_init_priv "const char *keyfile, const char *certfile, void *passcb, int *error"
.Ft void
.Fn anoubis_sig_free "struct anoubis_sig *as"
.Ft char *
.Fn anoubis_sig_key2char "int len, unsigned char *key"
.Ft unsigned char *
.Fn anoubis_sign_csum "struct anoubis_sig *as, unsigned char csum[ANOUBIS_SIG_HASH_SHA256_LEN], unsigned int *len"
.Ft int
.Fn anoubis_csum_verify "struct anoubis_sig *as, unsigned char csum[ANOUBIS_SIG_HASH_SHA256_LEN], unsigned char *sign, int siglen"
.Ft int
.Fn anoubisd_csum_verify "EVP_PKEY *pkey, unsigned char csum[ANOUBIS_SIG_HASH_SHA256_LEN], unsigned char *sign, int siglen"
.Ft unsigned char *
.Fn anoubis_sign_policy "struct anoubis_sig *as, const char *file, unsigned int *len"
.Ft int
.Fn anoubis_verify_policy "const char *filename, unsigned char *sigbuf, int siglen, EVP_PKEY *sigkey"
.Ft int
.Fn anoubis_verify_policy_file "const char *filename, EVP_PKEY *sigkey"
.Ft char *
.Fn anoubis_sig_cert_name "X509 *cert"

.Sh DESCRIPTION
This library is used to sign and verify checksums or policies.
.Pp
The function
.Nm anoubis_sig_pub_init
and
.Nm anoubis_sig_pub_init
is used to load private or public keys and the certificate. To free the so
created
.Nm anoubis_sig
struct the function
.Nm anoubis_sig_free
is needed.
.Pp
To create a signature of a calculated checksum, use
.Nm anoubis_sign_csum.
To verify the result use in client applications
.Nm anoubis_verify_csum
and within the daemon
.Nm anoubisd_verify_csum.
.Pp
The function
.Nm anoubis_sign_policy
provides to create a signature for a policy file. To verify this signature for
this policy
.Nm anoubis_verify_policy_file
and
.Nm anoubis_verify_policy
are used. Where
.Nm anoubis_verify_policy_file
is using the filename of the policy and
.Nm anoubis_verify_policy
a buffer which contains the signature of the policy.
.Nm anoubis_cert_name
returns the subject name of a certificate.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm anoubis_sig_pub_init
returns the anoubis_struct or NULL on error. In case of a failure the value of
error is set.
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_sig_priv_init
returns the anoubis_struct or NULL on error. In case of a failure the value of
error is set.
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_sig_key2char
returns the char representation of the key or NULL on error
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_sign_csum
returns a unsigned char buffer including the checksum and the signature of the
checksum or NULL on error.
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_verify_csum
returns 1 if the checksum is verified or 0 on error or not matching signature.
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_sign_policy
return the signature of the policy or NULL on error.
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_verify_policy
return 1 on successful verification or 0 on error or unsuccessful verification.
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_verify_policy_file
return 1 on successful verification or 0 on error or unsuccessful verification.
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_sig_cert_name
return subject name or NULL if an error occurs.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr anoubis_client 3 ,
.Xr anoubis_server 3 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
Konrad Merz <konrad.merz@genua.de>
