.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.9 2004/07/02 10:36:57 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 GeNUA mbH <info@genua.de>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd February 29, 2008
.Dt ANOUBIS_AUTH 3
.Os Anoubis
.Sh NAME
.Nm struct anoubis_auth
.Nm anoubis_auth_create
.Nm anoubis_auth_destroy
.Nm anoubis_auth_process
.Nd Protocol level authentication interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In anoubis_msg.h
.In anoubis_auth.h
.Ft struct anoubis_auth *
.Fn anoubis_auth_create "struct achat_channel * chan" "anoubis_auth_callback_t finish" "void * data"
.Ft void
.Fn anoubis_auth_destroy "struct anoubis_auth * auth"
.Ft int
.Fn anoubis_auth_process "struct anoubis_auth * auth" "struct anoubis_msg * m"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This module is used to handle client authentication at the anoubis protocol
level.
Once the client requests authentication with an
.Em ANOUBIS_C_AUTH
message an authentication object should be created with
.Nm anoubis_auth_create.
All of the
.Em ANOUBIS_C_AUTHDATA
messages that are exchanged during authentication should be passed to
.Nm anoubis_auth_process.
Once the authentication library detects the end of the authentication
phase it will call the
.Va finish
callback function.
.Em Only
messages of type
.Em ANOUBIS_C_AUTHDATA
should be passed to
.Nm anoubis_auth_process.
Any messages that must be sent by the authentication
library are sent onto the channel
.Va chan.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm anoubis_auth_create
returns a pointer to the new authentication structure or
.Em NULL
if no memory was available.
.Pp
.Nm anoubis_auth_process
returns zero if the message could be processed or a negative errno value
of processing failed for some reason.
In the latter case subsequent messages will also yield an error code.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr anoubis_msg 3 ,
.Xr anoubis_client 3 ,
.Xr anoubis_server 3 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
Christian Ehrhardt <ehrhardt@genua.de>
