.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.9 2004/07/02 10:36:57 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 GeNUA mbH <info@genua.de>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd June 18, 2008
.Dt ANOUBISCTL 8
.Os Anoubis
.Sh NAME
.Nm anoubisctl
.Nd control the Anoubis Backend Daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm anoubisctl
.Op Fl fnvv
.Op Fl k Pa keyfile
.Op Fl c Pa certificate
.Op Fl i Pa fd
.Op Fl o Pa sigfile
.Ar command
.Op Pa file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program controls the
.Xr anoubisd 8
daemon.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f
Force policy load even if the policy has syntax errors.
This option is intended for debugging purposes.
Its use is not recommended.
.It Fl n
Config test mode.
Only check the configuration file for validity.
.Nm
will do nothing except parse the configuration file and terminate.
.It Fl p Ar admin | Ar user
Dump/Load admin or user policies. Loading admin policies requires
root privileges.
.It Fl u Ar uid
Dump/Load this user's policy, requires root privileges.
.Ar DEFAULT
may be used to dump/load the default policies.
.It Fl v
Produce more verbose output.
Multiple
.Fl v
options increase the verbosity.
.Ic ps
command.
.It Fl k Ar keyfile
Specify location of private key (default ~/.xanoubis/default.key)
.It Fl c Ar certfile
Specify location of certificate. (default ~/.xanoubis/default.crt)
.It Fl i Ar fd
This option is only supported with the passphrase command.
The argument is a file descriptor where the passphrase is read from.
The default is to read the passphrase from the tty.
.It Fl o Ar sigfile
This option is only supported with the load command.
The argument is a file where the signature for the policy is stored.
The policy will not be sent to the daemon.
.It Ar command
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic start
start the
.Xr anoubisd 8
if not running.
.It Ic stop
stop the
.Xr anoubisd 8
if running.
.It Ic version
show version information.
.It Ic status
show the running state of the
.Xr anoubisd 8 .
.It Ic reload
reload the current rules to the
.Xr anoubisd 8 .
.It Ic restart
restart the
.Xr anoubisd 8 .
If necessary the daemon restart is delayed until the current upgrade ends.
.It Ic load
load the rules
.Op file
to the
.Xr anoubisd 8 .
.It Ic dump
dump rules from the
.Xr anoubisd 8
daemon to the
.Ar file .
.It Ic passphrase
Unlock the private key of root in the daemon.
.Pp
This command is reserved for the root user. It is only useful if
.Xr anoubisd 8
is configured with the C<rootkey> option and the key is protected by
a passphrase.
It sends the passphrase to the daemon and the daemon will then unlock
and read the private key of the root user into memory.
The key is used to keep signed checksums up to date during an upgrade.
.Pp
Depending on your environment this feature can be a security concern.
.It Ic verify Ar file Ar signature
Assume that the second file given by <signature> contains a signature for
the first file <file> and verify that the signature is ok.
The result of the verification is printed to stdout and indicated by the
return value.
Uses the certificate given by the
.Fl c
option or the default value if
.Fl c
was omitted.
.It Ic ps
Display a list of processes that are known to anoubisd.
Only processes with the user id specified by
.Fl u
are shown (defaults to current user).
Only root may view other users' processes.
The information available for processes which were started before anoubisd was
running may be incomplete.
For every process,
.Nm
displays:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It pid
The process id.
.It cookie
The task cookie used to uniquely identify the process.
.It alf=ida:idu
The IDs of the ALF admin and user rulesets used for this process.
.It sfs=ida:idu
The IDs of the SFS admin and user rulesets used for this process.
.It ctx=ida:idu
The IDs of the context admin and user rulesets used for this process.
.It secureexec
Flag to denote that process has been started by secure exec (restricted ptrace,
LD_PRELOAD). Only shown if
.Fl v
is given.
.It program
The path name of the program running. With
.Fl vv ,
the checksum is shown, too.
.It contexts=prog_a:prog_u
The path of the programs in which admin and user contexts the process is
running. Only shown if
.Fl v
is given. With
.Fl vv ,
the checksums are shown in
addition to the path names.
.El
.Pp
The numerical IDs shown are identical to those displayed when using the
.Ic dump
command.
.It Ic stat
Wait for the next status message from the Anoubis daemon and output the
statistics contained in the message.
.It Ic monitor
shows live information on notifications being sent and received.
.Pp
[ all ] Display notifications for all users.
.Pp
[ error=num> ] specifies the return value that will be sent in response
to ASK events.
.Pp
[ count=<num> ] specifies the amount of messages being shown.
.El
.El
.Pp
.Nm
connects via the
.Em libanoubischat
protocol to the
.Xr anoubisd 8
daemon and issues the given
.Ar command
(except for the
.Ic start
and
.Ic stop
commands) as a message to the daemon.
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and used where appropriate.
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7 & 8 only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It /var/run/anoubisd.sock
The Unix domain
.Ar socket
used for connections from the cli or GUI
to the Anoubisd daemon via the
.Ar libanoubischat
and
.Ar libanoubisprotocol
libraries.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example shows how to check if the
.Xr anoubisd 8
daemon is running
.Bd -literal -offset -indent-two
# anoubisctl status
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr anoubisd 8
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.Sh AUTHORS
Hans-Joerg Hoexer and Randall Dow
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
