.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.9 2004/07/02 10:36:57 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 GeNUA mbH <info@genua.de>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd November 23, 2009
.Dt ANOUBIS-KEYINSTALL 1
.Os Anoubis
.Sh NAME
.Nm anoubis-keyinstall
.Nd Registers a new public key with the anoubis daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm anoubis-keyinstall
.Op -u <user>
.Op -k <private key>
.Ar certificate
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command installs the public key
.Ar certificate
and makes sure that the anoubis daemon will be able to use the key after the
next restart.
.Nm
makes sure that all signed policies affected by the certificate
have an appropriate signature and refuses to install the certificate
if these signatures are not present and cannot be generated.

If a private key is supplied via the
.Fl k
option,
.Nm
will try to update any incorrect/missing signatures.
.Pp
Options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Print more debug messages.
.Pp
.It Fl u Ar user
The user name of the user that owns the key.
.Pp
.It Fl k Ar private key
The private key that should be used to generate signatures.
.Pp
.El
.Pp
.Sh AUTHORS
Christian Ehrhardt
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
