.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.9 2004/07/02 10:36:57 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 GeNUA mbH <info@genua.de>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd Aug 02, 2010
.Dt PLAYGROUND 1
.Os Anoubis
.Sh NAME
.Nm playground
.Nd manage Anoubis playgrounds
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" For a program:  program [-abc] file ...
.Nm playground
.Op Fl hfF
.Op Fl k Ar keyfile
.Op Fl c Ar certificate
.Op Fl X
.Ar command
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program manages Anoubis playgrounds. Playgrounds are used to provide
untrusted programs with a separate view of the file system. The
.Nm
utility can be used perform various useful operations on playground instances.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print usage.
.It Fl f
Force.
Continue certain operations even when encountering errors.
This option is intended for debugging purposes.
Its use is not recommended.
.It Fl F, Fl Fl ignore-recommended
Ignore recommended scanners.
This option is only valid for the commit-operation.
.It Fl k Ar keyfile
Specify the private key (default ~/.xanoubis/default.key)
.It Fl c Ar certfile
Specify the certificate. (default ~/.xanoubis/default.crt)
.It Fl X
Start playground programs in an isolated X session. This flag is
recommended for all X11 applications unless you want to run them in
insecure mode. It is only valid for the
.Ar start
command.
.It Ar command
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It start \&<program\&> \&[args...\&]
start a program within a new playground. The
.Nm
utility will start \&<program\&> by calling
.Xr exec 3 .
After execution of
.Nm
\&$? represents an error from
.Nm
or the exit code of \&<program\&> in case of
a successful
.Xr exec 3 .
.It list
This will print out a list of all known playgrounds.
The list contains the following items for each playground:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It PGID - id of playground
.It USER - user id
.It STAT - status: active or inactive
.It FILES - number of (modified) files
.It TIME - time of creation
.It COMMAND - command
.El
.It files \&<playground id\&>
This prints out a list of files belonging to a given playground.
The playground is specified by its id (in hexadecimal as supplied by the
list command). The list contains the following items for each file:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It PGID - id of playground
.It DEV - device number
.It INODE - inode number
.It FILE - file path
.El
.It remove \&<playground id\&>
This deletes all the files belonging to a given playground.
The playground is specified by its id (in hexadecimal as supplied by the
.Ar list
command). Removing an active playground requires the
.Fl f
option.
You cannot remove playgrounds with files, which cannot be located anymore.
This can happen with files on a non-persistent filesystem (like tmpfs) after a
reboot.
Passing the
.Fl f
option to the command, will detach such files from the playground, and the
playground is removed.
.It delete \&<playground id\&> \&<file\&>
Delete the specified file(s) from the specified playground. The playground is
specified by its id in hexadecimal, the files are specified with their
regular name as shown in the
.Ar list
command. Files from active playgrounds
can be deleted with the
.Fl f
option.
If a file is still in a playground but it cannot be located anymore, you are
able to delete the file with the
.Fl f
option.
This can happen with files on non-persistent filesystem (like tmpfs) after a
reboot.
Pass the device- and inode-number separated by a colon to the operation
(e.g. playground -f delete 78776:ab).
.It commit \&<playground id\&> \&<file\&>
Move the specified file(s) from the specified playground to the normal
file system. The playground is specified by its id in hexadecimal, the files
are specified with their full path as shown in the
.Ar list
command.
If the option
.Fl Fl ignore-recommended
is set, recommended scanners are skipped.
.El
.El
.El
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and used where appropriate.
.\" This next request is for sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7 & 8 only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" .Sh FILES
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Nm
start firefox
.Pp
.Nm
start ls -lh
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 4, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" The next request is for sections 2, 3, and 9 error and signal handling only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO
.\" .Xr foobar 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.Sh AUTHORS
Christian Hiesl
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
