.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.9 2004/07/02 10:36:57 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 GeNUA mbH <info@genua.de>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd October 17, 2008
.Dt SFSSIG 8
.Os Anoubis
.Sh NAME
.Nm sfssig
.Nd manage checksums for the Anoubis Daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sfssig
.Op -dvi
.Op --recursiv | -r
.Op --link | -l
.Op -f listfile
.Op -o exportfile
.Op --uid uid | -u uid
.Op --key keyfile | -k keyfile
.Op --cert certfile | -c keyfile
.Op --sum
.Op --sig
.Ar command
.Op file...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
program manages checksums for the
.Xr anoubisd 8
daemon. These checksums are stored in the
.Ar /var/lib/anoubis/sfs
directory. To enable per-user checksums for every file a special
.Ar shadowtree
directory structure is used.
.Pp
Options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Debug mode.
Prints debug information to the console.
.It Fl v
Produce more verbose output.
.It Fl i
Accept checksums created by other users during import.
.El
.Pp
Path specification:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r , Fl -recursive
Apply command to all files inside each directory, recursively.
.It Fl l , Fl -link
Apply command to a symlink, not to the referenced file.
.It Fl f Ar listfile
Accept input from file
.Ar listfile .
Use "-" for stdin.
.It Fl o Ar exportfile
Specify the output of the command export. Default is stdout.
.El
.Pp
Type specification:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl u Ar uid , Fl -uid Ar uid
Apply command to checksums with owner
.Ar uid .
If the argument is
.Ar all ,
all registered uids will be used.
This requires root privileges.
.El
.Pp
Key files (needed for some operations):
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl k Ar keyfile , Fl -key Ar keyfile
Load private key from
.Ar keyfile .
If not specified,
.Pa ~/.xanoubis/private.pem
is used.
.It Fl c Ar certfile , Fl -cert Ar certfile
Load certificate from
.Ar certfile .
If not specified,
.Pa ~/.xanoubis/default.crt
is used.
.El
.Pp
Filter specification:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width DST
.It Fl -hassum
Apply command to files which have checksums.
.It Fl -hasnosum
Apply command to files which have no checksums.
.It Fl -hassig
Apply command to files which have signatures.
.It Fl -hasnosig
Apply command to files which have no signatures.
.It Fl -orphaned
Apply command to checksums or signatures which do not exist in the real
file system.
.It Fl -notfile
Apply command to checksums or signatures which are not regular files.
.It Fl -upgraded
Apply command just on upgraded signatures. This option requires a certificate.
.El
.Pp
Command specification:
.Bl -tag -width DST
.It Fl -sum
Apply command for a checksum.
.It Fl -sig
Apply command for a signature.
.El
.Pp
.Ar commands
.Pp
add - add checksum of
.Ar file
to the shadow tree.
.Pp
del - delete checksum of
.Ar file
from the shadow tree.
.Pp
list - list all entries in the shadow tree for
.Ar file .
.Pp
get - returns the checksum of
.Ar file
as found in the shadow tree.
.Pp
export - exports the checksums and signatures of all files
in
.Ar directory .
.Pp
import - imports checksums and signatures from
.Ar file .
.Pp
validate - checks the checksum of
.Ar file .
.Pp
.El
.Nm
connects via the
.Em libanoubischat
protocol to the
.Xr anoubisd 8
daemon and issues the given
.Ar command
as a message to the daemon.
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and used where appropriate.
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7 & 8 only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Sh ADDITIONAL
The capitalized options to
.Nm
are used to manage checksums stored in extended attributes. All of these options
are
.Ar only
usable by root and most will
.Ar not
work when
the anoubis kernel modules are loaded. These options are not needed for regular
usage.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl A Ar checksum file
Add checksum
.Ar checksum
to
.Ar file .
.It Fl U Ar file
Update the system checksum using the current file contents.
.It Fl R Ar file
Remove the current system checksum.
.It Fl L Ar file
Display the system checksum of
.Ar file .
.It Fl S Ar file
Disable checksum verification for
.Ar file .
.It Fl C Ar file
Enable checksum verification for
.Ar file .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It /sbin/sfssig
The main program binary
.It Pa /var/lib/anoubis/sfs
The shadowtree containing on-disk SFS checksums.
.It /var/run/anoubisd.sock
The socket
for connections to
.Xr anoubisd 8
using the
.Ar libanoubischat
and
.Ar libanoubisprotocol
libraries.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To add a checksum for a file to the shadowtree:
.Pp
.Dl # sfssig add /tmp/test.txt
.Pp
To delete checksums for all files passed on stdin:
.Pp
.Dl # sfssig -f - del
.Pp
To list all available checksums for uid 1001
recursively starting at /tmp:
.Pp
.Dl # sfssig -r -u 1001 get /tmp
.Pp
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr anoubisd 8
.Xr anoubisctl 8
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.Sh AUTHORS
Konrad Merz
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
