.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.9 2004/07/02 10:36:57 jmc Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 GeNUA mbH <info@genua.de>
.\"
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd April 08, 2008
.Dt XANOUBIS_GUESSAPP.SH 1
.Os Anoubis
.Sh NAME
.Nm xanoubis_guessApp.sh
.Nd Search in Desktop Entry files for a given pattern
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" For a program:  program [-abc] file ...
.Nm xanoubis_guessApp.sh
.Op Fl b Ar binary
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl s Ar path
.Op Ar pattern
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
searches in (hopefully) all desktop entry files for a given pattern.
For searching for a special binary, you may specify
.Fl b .
With the optional parameter
.Fl s
you can specify addtional directories to search in.
Those files describe the entries in the start menue of most modern
desktops (like Gnome or KDE).
A single line with 4 fields, seperated by '#', for each file containing
the pattern, is written to standard out.
The fields are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Name
specified in the desktop entry file
.Po
key 'Name'
.Pc
.It Binary
specified in the desktop entry file
.Po
key 'Exec'
.Pc
.It Package name
extracted by 'dpkg -s'
.It Package description
a short description claimed by 'dpkg -S'
.El
.Pp
If the pattern is ommited, a line for each found desktop entry file
will been printed.
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and used where appropriate.
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7 & 8 only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Sh FILES
The following directories will been searched for files with a name matching
"*.desktop" :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It /usr/share/applications/
.It $HOME/.kde*
.It $HOME/.gnome*
.It $HOME/Desktop/
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Nm
.Ar xpdf
.Pp
xpdf # /usr/bin/xpdf # xpdf-reader #  Portable <...> viewer for X11
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 4, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr xanoubis 1
.Xr dpkg lin1
.Xr www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/desktop-entry-spec
.Sh AUTHORS
Christian Hiesl
